>> THE SHADOW OF CRISIS HAS
PASSED, AND THE STATE OF THE
UNION IS STRONG.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
TAKES HIS STATE OF THE UNION
MESSAGE ON THE ROAD WE TALK WITH
MAYORS ABOUT HOW HIS PROPOSALS
MIGHT AFFECT MAIN STREET.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, A
HISTORIC MEETING IN HAVANA.
AMERICAN AND CUBAN OFFICIALS
BEGIN THE HARD WORK OF RESTORING
DIPLOMATIC TIES SEVERED AT THE
HEIGHT OF THE COLD WAR.
>> I DON'T SEE NOT BAKING A CAKE
AS CAUSING ANY HARM.
>> Woodruff: CAN BUSINESSES
REFUSE TO PROVIDE SERVICES BASED
ON AN OWNER'S RELIGIOUS BELIEFS?
THE LEGAL CONTROVERSY FOR ONE
DENVER BAKERY THAT TURNED AWAY A
GAY COUPLE'S REQUEST FOR A
WEDDING CAKE.
>> WE STRONGLY SUPPORT THE RIGHT
FOR PEOPLE TO BELIEVE WHATEVER
THEY BELIEVE IN THEIR HEARTS,
BUT A BAKERY IS NOT A CHURCH.
IT IS A PLACE OF BUSINESS OPEN
TO THE PUBLIC.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: ON THIS DAY AFTER THE
STATE OF THE UNION, PRESIDENT
OBAMA TOOK THE NEXT STEPS TOWARD
TRYING TO MAKE HIS AGENDA A
REALITY.
HE SOUGHT A NEW SETTING, AND A
NEW AUDIENCE FAR FROM
WASHINGTON.
WITH THE BIG SPEECH BEHIND HIM,
THE PRESIDENT JOURNEYED DEEP
INTO REPUBLICAN TERRITORY TO
SELL HIS ECONOMIC PROGRAM IN
BOISE, IDAHO.
>> MIDDLE CLASS ECONOMICS WORKS!
EXPANDING OPPORTUNITY WORKS!
THESE POLICIES WILL KEEP ON
WORKING AS LONG AS POLITICS IN
WASHINGTON DOESN'T GET IN THE
WAY OF OUR PROGRESS!
LET'S MAKE SURE ALL OUR PEOPLE
HAVE THE TOOLS AND THE SUPPORT
THAT THEY NEED TO GO AS FAR AS
THEIR DREAMS AND THEIR EFFORT
WILL TAKE THEM!
>> Ifill: THE ROAD TRIP IS
DESIGNED TO BUILD ON LAST
NIGHT'S ADDRESS TO CONGRESS AND
THE NATION AND ON THE
PRESIDENT'S DECLARATION THAT
YEARS OF RECESSION AND WAR ARE
FINALLY OVER.
>> IT HAS BEEN, AND STILL IS, A
HARD TIME FOR MANY, BUT TONIGHT,
WE TURN THE PAGE.
>> Ifill: AND FOR MR. OBAMA,
TURNING THAT PAGE MEANS PUSHING
A NEWLY ASSERTIVE AGENDA,
DESPITE LAST FALL'S DEMOCRATIC
LOSSES.
THE AGENDA INCLUDES FIRST-TIME
PROPOSALS, SUCH AS:
MAKING COMMUNITY COLLEGE FREE
FOR MANY AMERICANS.
REQUIRING BUSINESSES TO PROVIDE
PAID SICK LEAVE TO THEIR
EMPLOYEES.
AND BOLSTERING EFFORTS TO
PREVENT CYBER ATTACKS.
OVERSEAS, HE'S CALLING FOR NEW
AUTHORITY TO USE FORCE AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE.
PLUS, LIFTING THE DECADES-LONG
EMBARGO ON CUBA.
BUT IT WAS CLEAR LAST NIGHT WHAT
E MAJORITIES IN
THE HOUSE AND SENATE THINK OF
THE PRESIDENT'S CALLS FOR NEW
TAXES.
>> BUT FOR FAR TOO LONG,
LOBBYISTS HAVE RIGGED THE TAX
CODE WITH LOOPHOLES THAT LET
SOME CORPORATIONS PAY NOTHING
WHILE OTHERS PAY FULL FREIGHT.
>> Ifill: AND OF HIS PLAN TO
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE.
>> IF YOU TRULY BELIEVE YOU
COULD WORK FULL-TIME AND SUPPORT
A FAMILY ON LESS THAN $15,000 A
YEAR, TRY IT.
IFNOT,  VOTE TO GIVE MILLIONS OF
THE HARDEST WORKING PEOPLE IN
AMERICA A RAISE.
>> Ifill: TODAY, HOUSE SPEAKER
JOHN BOEHNER DROVE HOME THE
POINT.
>> ALL THE PRESIDENT REALLY
OFFERED LAST NIGHT WAS MORE
TAXES, MORE GOVERNMENT, MORE OF
THE SAME APPROACH THAT HAS
FAILED THE MIDDLE CLASS FOR
DECADES.
THESE JUST AREN'T THE WRONG
POLICIES, THEY'RE THE WRONG
PRIORITIES.
>> Ifill: TOP REPUBLICANS ALSO
CRITICIZED THE PRESIDENT'S
PLEDGE TO VETO BILLS THAT COULD
ROLL BACK HEALTH CARE AND
IMMIGRATION POLICIES.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL.
>> WE KNOW THE PRESIDENT MAY NOT
BE WILD ABOUT THE PEOPLE'S
CHOICE OF A CONGRESS, BUT HE
OWES IT TO THE AMERICANEOPL PE
TO FIND A SERIOUS WAY TO WORK
WITH THE REPRESENTATIVES THAT
THEY ELECTED.
AND IF THE PRESIDENT IS WILLING
TO PUT THE VETO THREATS AWAY AND
THE DESIGNED-TO-FAIL TALKING
POINTS ASIDE, WE CAN STILL
COOPERATE TO GET SOME SMART
THINGS DONE FOR THE PEOPLE WE
REPRESENT.
>> Ifill: BUT AS THE PRESIDENT
SAID LAST NIGHT, WITH NO MORE
CAMPAIGNS TO RUN, HE WILL PUT
ALL HIS ENERGY INTO PUSHING HIS
IDEAS.
TODAY, MINNESOTA SENATOR AMY
KLOBUCHAR AND OTHER DEMOCRATS
SAID THEY'RE INVIGORATED BY THAT
APPROACH.
>> THE PRESIDENT IS NOT GOING TO
BE SPENDING HIS NEXT YEAR AND A
HALF SLOUCHED IN HIS ARMCHAIR
PLANNING HIS PRESIDENTIAL
LIBRARY.
I THINK WHAT WE SAW LAST NIGHT
IS A PRESIDENT THAT WANTS TO GET
THINGS DONE IN HIS REMAI
TIME IN OFFICE AND I THINK THAT
WE SEE AN ENERGIZED COUNTRY THAT
ALSO WANTS TO GET THROUGH THE
GRIDLOCK AND MOVE FORWARD.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA PLANS
TO MOVE FORWARD AGAIN TOMORROW,
WITH AN EVENT IN ANOTHER HEAVILY
REPUBLICAN STATE: KANSAS.
WE'LL ASK TWO OF THE NATION'S
MAYORS HOW THE PRESIDENT'S STATE
OF THE UNION PRIORITIES WILL
AFFECT THEM RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT FACED
NEW CHALLENGES ON IRAN TODAY,
FROM HERE IN WASHINGTON, AND
FROM BOTH SIDES OF THE CAPITOL.
SENATORS PRESSED A BI-PARTISAN
BILL THAT IMPOSES NEW SANCTIONS
UNLESS IRAN ACCEPTS CURBS ON ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM BY JULY.
NEW JERSEY DEMOCRAT ROBERT
MENENDEZ HELPED DRAFT THE BILL.
AT A HEARING, HE SAID IRAN IS
DRAGGING OUT NEGOTIATIONS.
>> AFTER 18 MONTHS OF STALLING,
IRAN NEEDS TO KNOW THAT THERE
WILL BE CONSEQUENCES FOR
FAILURE.
NOW SOME OF US BELIEVE THOSE
CONSEQUENCES SHOULD BE
ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS.
WHILE WE ARE PLAYING NICE,
HOWEVER, IRAN IS PLAYING AN
ASYMMETRICAL GAME, VIOLATING, IN
MY VIEW, THE SPIRIT AND INTENT
OF SANCTIONS.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT WARNED
AGAIN LAST NIGHT THAT HE WOULD
VETO A SANCTIONS BILL.
AND AT TODAY'S HEARING, DEPUTY
SECRETARY OF STATE TONY BLINKEN
WARNED IRAN WOULD SIMPLY WALK
AWAY FROM THE TALKS.
>> IRAN IS WELL AWARE THAT A
SWORD OF DAMOCLES HANGS OVER ITS
HEAD.
IT NEEDS NO FURTHER MOTIVATION.
SO THE SANCTIONS, NEW SANCTIONS
AT THIS POINT ARE NOT NECESSARY,
BUT WE ALSO BELIEVE THEIR
PASSAGE NOW WOULD PUT AT RISK
GETTING TO A FINAL DEAL OVER THE
NEXT SEVERAL MONTHS.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER INVITED
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU TO ADDRESS CONGRESS ON
IRAN, AND NETANYAHU ACCEPTED.
THE WHITE HOUSE WAS NOT
CONSULTED IN ADVANCE.
IT SAID THE INVITATION GOES
AGAINST DIPLOMATIC PROTOCOL.
>> Ifill: SHIITE REBELS IN YEMEN
TOOK THE PRO-AMERICAN PRESIDENT
CAPTIVE IN HIS OWN HOME TODAY.
HOURS LATER, THE STATE NEWS
AGENCY REPORTED THAT PRESIDENT
ABD-RABBU MANSOUR HADI REACHED A
DEAL WITH THE REBELS.
THE AGREEMENT CALLS FOR THE
GUNMEN TO PULL AWAY FROM THE
HAI REDSIDENCE, AND TO GIVE THE
SHIITES MORE SAY IN YEMEN'S
AFFAIRS.
THAT INCLUDES MORE
REPRESENTATION IN PARLIAMENT.
>> Woodruff: FRANCE HAS
ANNOUNCED NEARLY HALF A BILLION
DOLLARS IN NEW SPENDING, OVER
THREE YEARS, TO FIGHT TERROR.
THE MEASURES INCLUDE HIRING MORE
THAN $2,500 NEW OFFICERS, GIVING
THEM BETTER WEAPONS AND
EXPANDING SURVEILLANCE OF SOME
3,000 ISLAMIST RADICALS IN
FRANCE AND ABROAD.
PRIME MINISTER MANUEL VALLS SAYS
THE PARIS ATTACKS SHOW THE NEED
TO ACT.
>> ( translated ): ONE SHOULD
NEVER UNDER-ESTIMATE THE
MAGNITUDE AND THE DIFFICULTY OF
THE TASKS OF THE INTELLIGENCE
SERVICES.
THAT'S WHY THE FIRST URGENCY,
THE FIRST REQUIREMENT IS TO
FURTHER REINFORCE THE HUMAN AND
TECHNICAL MEANS OF OUR
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES.
I SAY FURTHER BECAUSE WE NEED TO
GO FURTHER THAN OUR COMMITMENTS
SINCE 2012.
>> Woodruff: ALSO TODAY, POLICE
IN BELGIUM ARRESTED A FIFTH
SUSPECT IN AN ALLEGED TERROR
CELL THAT WAS RAIDED LAST WEEK.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, IN IRAQ,
PRIME MINISTER HAIDER AL-ABADI
APPEALED FOR MORE HELP AGAINST
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES.
HE SAID THE U.S. COALITION ISN'T
MOVING FAST ENOUGH TO DELIVER
WEAPONS AND TRAIN IRAQI TROOPS.
>> THERE IS A LOT OF THINGS
BEING SAID AND BEING SPOKEN AND
VERY LITTLE ON THE GROUND.
WE ARE VERY THANKFUL FOR THE AIR
CAMPAIGN TO SUPPORT OUR MILITARY
BUT I THINK YOU CANNOT ACHIEVE
VICTORY WITHOUT A REAL FIGHT ON
THE GROUND AND WE ARE DOING THIS
FIGHT AND WE ARE EXPECTING OTHER
COUNTRIES TO MATCH OUR FIGHT.
>> Ifill: AND IN JAPAN, PRIME
MINISTER SHINZO ABE ARRIVED HOME
FROM THE MIDDLE EAST, SAYING
TIME IS RUNNING SHORT TO SAVE
TWO JAPANESE HOSTAGES.
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS ARE
DEMANDING $200 MILLION TO LET
THEM LIVE.
>> Woodruff: IN NIGERIA, BOKO
HARAM MILITANTS CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY TODAY FOR RECENT
MASS KILLINGS.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL SAYS UP TO
2,000 PEOPLE DIED IN THE
NORTHEASTERN WN OTOF BAGA.
IN A YOUTUBE VIDEO, TOKHARAM LEA
STOCKPILE OF WEAPONS.
HE WARNED THAT BAGA WAS JUST,
"THE TIP OF THE ICEBERG."
>> Ifill: THERE'S BEEN ANOTHER
PALESTINIAN ATTACK ON ISRAELIS
IN TEL AVIV.
A MAN STABBED 11 PEOPLE ON AND
NEAR A BUS DURING MORNING RUSH
HOUR.
SOON AFTER, AMBULANCES AND
MEDICAL WORKERS RUSHED TO THE
SCENE.
THE ATTACKER WAS A 23-YEAR-OLD
MAN FROM THE WEST BANK.
POLICE SHOT HIM, THEN TOOK HIM
INTO CUSTODY.
>> Woodruff: AND FIGHTING
ESCALATED TODAY IN EASTERN
UKRAINE, AS THE GOVERNMENT
CHARGED RUSSIA HAS SENT MORE
TANKS AND TROOPS ACROSS THE
BORDER.AN
ARMORED CONVOY OF PRO-RUSSIAN
FORCES AR LNEUHANSK.
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS IN KIEV SAID
IN FACT, THE RUSSIANS ARE
SUPPLYING THE FIGHTERS AND
WEAPONS.
THE ALLEGATIONS CAME AS FOUR-WAY
PEACE TALKS WERE SET TO RESUME,
IN GERMANY.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
HOUSE REPUBLICANS PUSHED THROUGH
A BILL TO SET ONE YEAR LIMITS ON
APPROVING NATURAL GAS PIPELINES.
DEMOCRATS SAID THERE IS NO NEED
TO SHORT CIRCUIT THE ESTABLISHED
PROCESS.
THE BILL GOES NOW TO THE SENATE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS THREATENED A
VETO.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET,
MANAGED SMALL GAINS ON HOPES
THAT THE EUROPEAN UNION CENTRAL
BANK WILL ANNOUNCE NEW STIMULUS
MEASURES TOMORROW.
THE DOW JONS INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 39 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,554; THE NASDAQ ROSE 12
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,667; AND
THE S&P 500 ADDED NINE TO FINISH
AT 2,032.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
HOW THE STATE OF THE UNION PLAYS
ON MAIN STREET.
HISTORIC TALKS WITH CUBA.
THE SUPREME COURT WEIGHS FAIR
HOUSING LAWS.
CAN EXPRESSIONS OF FAITH
DISCRIMINATE?
AN UPDATE ON THE FIGHT TO
CONTAIN EBOLA.
AND, DID THE NEW ENGLAND
PATRIOTS CHEAT BY USING UNDER-
INFLATED FOOTBALLS?
>> Woodruff: A DAY AFTER THE
PRESIDENT'S STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS, BOTH REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS PREDICT MOST OF HIS
PROPOSALS WON'T GO VERY FAR.
THE GRIDLOCK IN WASHINGTON HAS
LEFT THE HEAVY LIFTING OF
GOVERNMENT TO MORE LOCAL LEVELS
THE CITIES AND TOWNS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
WE WANTED TO FIND OUT WHAT LOCAL
LEADERS THINK ABOUT THE ISSUES
RAISED LAST NIGHT WHAT THE
ECONOMY AND INFRASTRUCTURE LOOK
LIKE TO THOSE MANAGING IT.
FOR PERSPECTIVE ON THAT, WE ARE
JOINED BY TWO MAYORS.
THEY ARE DEMOCRAT STEPHEN
BENJAMIN IS THE MAYOR OF
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA.
HE'S HAD THE JOB SINCE 2010.
AND RICHARD BERRY IS MAYOR OF
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.
HE HAS BEEN AT HIS CITY'S HELM
SINCE 2009 AND WAS THE CITY'S
FIRST REPUBLICAN MAYOR IN THREE
DECADES.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
>> GOOD EVENING.
GLAD TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: MAYOR BERRY,
LET'S START FIRST WITH A
QUESTION ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
SPEECH LAST NIGHT.
WHAT DID YOU HEAR THAT YOU COULD
SUPPORT AND WHAT DID YOU HEAR
THAT YOU COULDN'T SUPPORT?
>> AS A REPUBLICAN LEADER THAT
TAKES PRIDE IN BEING ABLE TO
WORK WITH THE WHITE HOUSE, THERE
ARE THINGS I HEARD THAT ARE
EXCITING TO ME BECAUSE WE'RE
WORKING ON THOSE IN OUR CITY.
WOMEN'S PAY EQUITY IS IMPORTANT
NATIONALLY.
WE'RE THE FIRST CITY IN THE
COUNTRY TO PUT FORWARD AN
INCENTIVE FOR OUR LOCAL
COMPANIES TO MAKE THAT A
PRIORITY.
FROM THE STANDPOINT OF TAXING
THE CAPITAL GAINS, CAN SUPPORT A
MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUT, BUT AS A
SMALL BUSINESS PERSON MYSELF
WITH MY WIFE AND I HAVING WORKED
HARD FOR 20 YEARS TO BUILD A
BUSINESS, I THINK HE'S OFF WITH
THE CAPITAL GAINS TAX BECAUSE IT
WILL HURT THOSE TRYING TO CREATE
JOBS IN OUR COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: THOUGH THE
PURPOSE WOULD BE TO PUT MONEY IN
THE POCKETS OF THE MIDDLE CLASS.
>> RIGHT, BUT YOU CAN DO THAT IN
MANY WAYS.
WE'RE HEADING TOWARD AIM GOALS
BUT MAYBE JUST DIFFERENT NO, SIR
PHIS ON HOW TO GET HERE.
>> Woodruff: MAYOR BENJAMIN,
WHAT DID YOU LIKE AND WHAT GAVE
YOU PAUSE?
>> WE HEARD A GREAT DEAL TO
SUPPORT.
PAY EQUITY OBVIOUSLY MAKING
CHILDCARE MORE AFFORDABLE,
MAKING ACCESS TO HIGHER
EDUCATION, COMMUNITY COLLEGE
BEING POTENTIALLY FREE, A FOCUS
ON APPRENTICESHIPS AND GETTING
MORE PEOPLE INTO THE WORKFORCE
AND STARTING EARLIER DIRECTING
CHILDREN TOWARDS REAL
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE 21s
21st CENTURY ECONOMY.
ALL OF THOSE WERE VERY
APPEALING.
WHAT I WANTED TO HEAR MORE,
WE'LL CERTAINLY WAIT FOR THE
PRESIDENT'S BUDGET, IS TO HEAR
MORE TALK ABOUT INFRASTRUCTURE
AND THE WAY IN WHICH WE FINANCE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
AS YOU KNOW, OVER 90% OF
AMERICA'S GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
IS CREATED IN CITIES AND
METROPOLITAN ECONOMIES, AND OUR
ABILITY TO INVEST IN
INFRASTRUCTURE, WATER, SEWER OR
ROADS USING THE TAX EXEMPT
MUNICIPAL BONDS IS ESSENTIAL TO
AMERICA'S PROSPERITY AND OUR
ABILITY TO COMPETE GLOBALLY.
SO WE WANT THE MAKE SURE THAT
OUR MESSAGE, THAT WE PROTECT
THAT 100-YEAR-OLD TAX EXEMPTION
ON MUNICIPAL BONDS.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS DON'T TAX DEBT
AND WE'RE ASKING MUNICIPAL
GOVERNMENT NOT THE TAX DEBT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT IN
ALBUQUERQUE, MAYOR BERRY, HOW
MUCH IS THAT AN ISSUE?
>> THE INFRASTRUCTURE IS A BIG
ISSUE.
WE HAVE A GREAT EXAMPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY HOW WE UNDERSTAND WE
CAN'T DO IT OURSELVES AND JUST
RELY ON DOLLARS COMING FROM
WASHINGTON FOR A MAJOR
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT WHERE
PEOPLE IN MY STATE TEAMS WITH
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO GET
THINGS DONE.
WE NEED TO DO MORE OF THAT.
YESTERDAY OUR GOVERNOR OUTLINED
AN INFRASTRUCTURE PROPOSAL FOR
THE STATE.
WE HAVE AN AGING INFRASTRUCTURE
IN NEW MEXICO AND THE COUNTRY
AND WE NEED TO DO MORE.
I AGREE, WE NEED TO PROTECT THE
TAX-FREE MUNICIPAL BONDS THE
CITIES CAN PUT OUT AND DO MORE
IN OUR COUNTRY TO REBUILD THE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> Woodruff: IS FEDERAL HELP
ON INFRASTRUCTURE GOING TO BE
IMPORTANT?
>> IT'S IMPORTANT BUT WE HAVE TO
HAVE A TARGET THAT'S SET AND THE
PROBLEM IN THE LAST COUPLE OF
YEARS IS CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS
NOT HAVING THINGS SOLIDIFIED IN
WASHINGTON.
WE HAVE UNCERTAINTY AND IT WANTS
DIFFICULT TO FINANCE THE
PROJECTS WE NEED TO DO.
THIS IS WHERE I THINK MAYORS
HAVE IMPORTANT LESSONS FOR
WASHINGTON IN SCWEN, FOR OUR
FRIENDS IN CONGRESS AND THE
PRESIDENT AND OTHERS, LET'S WORK
TOGETHER AND MAKE TAKE SOME OF
THE BIPARTISANNINGSHIP OUT OF
SOME OF THE DISCUSSIONS AND GET
SOME THAT COMMON SENSE FROM
MAIN STREET GOING UP HERE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT?
COULDN'T AGREE WITH RICHARD
MORE.
THE REALITY IS THAT THERE'S NO
REPUBLICAN WAY TO PICK UP THE
TRASH OR DEMOCRATIC WAY TO PICK
UP THE TRASH, IT'S GOT TO BE
PICKED UP, AND AMERICA'S CITIES,
WE HAVE TO GET IT DONE.
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA, IS
EXPERIENCING SOME SIGNATURE
ECONOMIC GROWTH NOW.
$1 BILLION INVESTED DOWNTOWN IN
THE PAST FOUR YEARS.
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE'S BEEN CUT BY
40% OVER THE LAST FOUR YEARS,
COLUMBIA IS ON FIRE, AND I DON'T
MEAN IT IN THE GENERAL SHERMAN
SENSE.
NEXT YEAR WE COMMEMORATE 150
YEARS SINCE THE BURNING OF
COLUMBIA.
IT'S RISEN LIKE A PHOENIX FROM
ASHES AND IT'S BECAUSE WE DON'T
ALLOW PARTISAN GRIDLOCK TO SHUT
US DOWN.
WE HAVE TO GET THINGS DONE AND
WORK ACROSS THE AISLES ON A
REGULAR BASIS TO GET THINGS
DONE.
>> Woodruff: I KNOW YOU, MAYOR
BENJAMIN.
YOU PUT EMPHASIS ON JOB
TRAINING.
WE KNOW THE EMPLOYMENT STORY HAS
PICKED UP IN COLUMBIA.
IS THERE FEDERAL ASENS THAT'S
HELPED YOU THAT YOU ARE LOOKING
FOR OR THAT YOU DON'T NEED?
>> WE WORK WELL WITH THE
ADMINISTRATION ON THE
TRANSPORTATION PIECE YOU
MENTIONED EARLIER.
WE RECEIVED AN $11 MILLION
INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT, TIGER
GRANT THAT'S HELPED US, THAT'S
GOING TO HELP US COMPLETE A
$40 MILLION PROJECT TO REDEVELOP
OUR CITY.
THERE ARE REALLY EXCITING
APPRENTICESHIP OPPORTUNITIES
THAT SECRETARY PEREZ AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, A
$100 MILLION GRANT OPPORTUNITY
HE'S SHARING WITH MAYORS ALL
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
REALLY, YOU KNOW, A FOUR-YEAR
COLLEGE IS NOT FOR EVERY YOUNG
PERSON.
I KNOW THERE ARE SOME YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO HAVE A CERTIFICATE
FROM A COMMUNITY COLLEGE IN A
PARTICULAR DISCIPLINE AND
THEY'LL MAKE MORE THAN SOMEONE
GRADUATING FROM SOME OF OUR
UNIVERSITIES WITH A FOUR-YEAR
DEGREE.
CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
EVERYONE REGARDLESS OF STRIKES
THEY MAY HAVE AGAINST THEM,
GIVING THEM A CHANCE TO CREATE
IN ECONOMIC PROSPERITY OF OUR
COUNTRY IS THE GOAL.
>> Woodruff: TO ALBUQUERQUE, I
LOOK AT YOU'RE LOOKING AT JOB
TRAINING TO EXPAND.
>> WE'RE OVERLY RELYING ON
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SPENDING TO
DIVERSIFY OUR ECONOMY.
SOME OF THE GRIDLOCK THAT'S
HAPPENED IN WASHINGTON IS
HURTING OUR CITIES SO WE'RE
TRYING TO BRING NAWRPSHI --
ENTREPRENEURSHIP TO THE
FOREFRONT.
TO HELP PEOPLE BE MORE
ECONOMICALLY MOBILE, THIS IS
WHAT LEADERS ARE WORKING ON THE
SET THE BASIS FOR THE 21 CENTURY
ECONOMY TO GIVE PEOPLE THE
SKILLS TO SUCCESS SEAT RATHER
THAN JUST ANOTHER PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: DOES IT MATTER
WHETHER DEMOCRATS OR REPUBLICANS
COOPERATE IN WASHINGTON.
>> IT'S VITAL.
ONCE AGAIN, THIS IS WHERE MAYORS
HAVE AN IMPORTANT LESSON FOR
WASHINGTON.
WE'RE GETTING IT DONE IN OUR
CITIES.
MAYOR BENJAMIN AND I WORK
TOGETHER.
DEMOCRATIC MAJORS HAVE TO
BALANCE BUDGET.
REPUBLICAN MAYORS ARE WORKING ON
HOMELESS INITIATIVES.
WE ARE NOT ALLOWING OURSELVES TO
BE PIGEON HOLED AND I THINK IS
NEEDED IN THE COUNTRY.
>> DO YOU SAY THAT?
ABSOLUTELY, WORKING ACROSS
THE AISLE IS ESSENTIAL.
THERE ARE NO QUICK FIXES.
THESE ARE COMPLEX ISSUES.
SOME TOOK YEARS TO CREATE, WILL
TAKE YEARS TO FIX.
LONG-TERM SOLUTIONS ARE KEY.
WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO IN OUR CITY
AND ARE REQUIRED BY LAW TO
BALANCE OUR BUDGETS.
I KNOW MAYOR BEE BERRY IS AS WE.
WE'VE BALANCE OWRD BUDGET IN
EIGHT YEARS WITH A TAX INCREASE.
THAT COMES WITH PLANNING.
BEING ABLE TO DO THAT ALONG WITH
STATE GOVERNMENT BEING A
PARTICIPANT AND BEING ABLE TO
BLAND INTO A LONG-TERM FEDERAL
BUDGET WOULD BE AN INCREDIBLE
BLESSING.
>> WE'RE GLAD TO HAVE BOTH OF
YOU TELL SOME OF THE STORY OF
WHAT'S HAPPENING.
MAYOR STEVE BENJAMIN FROM
COLUMBIA AND MAYOR RICHARD
RODRIGUEZ FROM ALBUQUERQUE, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO CUBA, WHERE
THE DIPLOMATIC ICE IS BREAKING
AFTER DECADES OF ESTRANGEMENT.
HAVANA IS KNOWN FOR ITS VINTAGE
CARS, ON THE ROAD SINCE THE U.S.
EMBARGO, AND COLORFUL BUILDINGS.
BUT THIS WEEK, THERE'S SOMETHING
NEW, AN AMERICAN FLAG, SYMBOL OF
WARMING RELATIONS.
THE TWO NATIONS OPENED THEIR
HIGHEST LEVEL TALKS IN 35 YEARS
TODAY, AIMED AT NORMALIZING
LONG-STRAINED RELATIONS.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
DISCUSSING MIGRATORY TENDENCIES
BETWEEN CUBA AND THE UNITED
STATES.
WE ARE ANALYZING THE IMMIGRATION
FLOWS BETWEEN BOTH COUNTRIES.
>> Ifill: THE HISTORIC TALKS
WERE MADE POSSIBLE AFTER
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND CUBAN
PRESIDENT RAUL CASTRO ANNOUNCED
A DIPLOMATIC BREAKTHROUGH LAST
MONTH.
MR. OBAMA FORMALLY ASKED
CONGRESS LAST NIGHT, TO END THE
HALF-CENTURY OLD EMBARGO.
>> WHEN WHAT YOU'RE DOING
DOESN'T WORK FOR FIFTY YEARS,
IT'S TIME TO TRY SOMETHING NEW.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Ifill: BUT NOT ALL IN
CONGRESS SUPPORT THE PRESIDENT'S
MOVES ON CUBA, AS REPUBLICAN
ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN OF FLORIDA
TOLD THE NEWSHOUR LAST NIGHT.
>> HE GAVE NO WORDS OF
ENCOURAGEMENT FOR FREEDOM, FOR
LIBERTY, FOR HUMAN RIGHTS.
ALL HE DID WAS GIVE AWAY THE
STORE TO THE CASTRO REGIME.
IT'S A SHAMEFUL THING.
>> Ifill: BACK IN CUBA, ORDINARY
CITIZENS SAID THIS WEEK THEY'RE
LOOKING TO THE MATERIAL GAINS
THAT A CHANGING RELATIONSHIP
COULD BRING.
>> ( translated ): I HOPE THEY
OPEN MORE BUSINESSES, THAT THERE
IS MORE TOURIS THAM,T FOOD
IMPORTS COME IN, SPARE PARTS
COME IN, THAT LOTS OF THINGS
START COMING IN THAT WE NEED TO
SEE HERE IN CUBA.
>> Ifill: CUBA IS ALREADY
DRAWING MORE TOURISTS EACH YEAR,
BUT THE U.S. HOPES TO SEE MORE
AMERICAN DIPLOMATS ALLOWED IN AS
WELL.
FOR MORE ON THIS TURNING POINT
IN U.S.-CUBAN RELATIONS, WE TURN
TO INDIRA LAKSHMANAN OF
BLOOMBERG NEWS.
SHE'S IN HAVANA TONIGHT, AND I
SPOKE WITH HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
INDIRA, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
BETWEEN THE EXPECTATIONS OF THE
TALKS, IS THERE A MIDDLE GROUND
SOMEWHERE?
>> I THINK THERE DEFINITELY HAS
BEEN A LOWERING OF EXPECTATIONS
ON BOTH SIDES FROM INITIALLY A
MONTH AGO, WE HEARD BOTH
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND CASTRO
TALKING ABOUT THE NORMALIZATION
OF RELATIONS, AND WHAT WE'VE
HEARD SINCE YESTERDAY FROM THE
CUBAN SIDE AS WELL AS FROM THE
AMERICAN SIDE IS A NEW
VOCABULARY.
INSTEAD OF TALKING
NORMALIZATION, THEY'RE TALKING
REESTABLISHMENT OF DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONS WHICH I THINK IS IN
ITS OWN WAY A WAY TO RESET THE
THOUGHT OF HOW LONG THIS WILL
TAKE.
YOU CAN PUT A FLAG UP AT EACH
INTERSECTION, TURN IT INTO AN
EMBASSY, SET UP AMBASSADORS BUT
IT WILL TAKE LONGER TO HAVE
NORMAL TRADE AND RELATIONS
BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES WHO
HAVE BEEN UNDER AN EMBARGO 53
YEARS, THE U.S. AGAINST CUBA, SO
IT WILL TAKE A LOT OF REDOING ON
THE RELATIONSHIP.
WON'T HAPPEN IN A DAY.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S CONVERSATION
WAS ABOUT MIGRATION.
DESCRIBE WHAT THEY WERE TALKING
ABOUT.
>> EVERS SINCE THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION IN 1994, THE U.S.
AND CUBA GOT TOGETHER ANDHEAD A
MIGRATION ACCORD SAYING THAT THE
UNITED STATES WOULD LEGALLY
ALLOW IN ABOUT 20,000 CUBANS A
YEAR TO DISCOURAGE CUBANS FROM
COMING ON RAFTS WHICH IS A
DANGEROUS WAY OF COMING AND TO
DECREASE HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND
ILLEGAL MIGRATION.
THE TALKS HAPPEN EVERY SIX
MONTHS BUT THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME THE TALKS HAVE HAPPENED IN
SUCH AN ATMOSPHERE ON THE EVE OF
ATTEMPTS TO REESTABLISH
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS AND WHAT WE
SAW WAS A BIT OF A CLASH TODAY
BETWEEN THE U.S. SIDE SAYING
DESPITE THE ANNOUNCEMENTS THEY
WILL CONTINUE THE WET FOOT-DRY
FOOT POLICY WHICH IS A SPECIAL
PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT FOR CUBAN
IMMIGRANTS WHICH IS ANYBODY WHO
GETS TO THE UNITED STATES FROM
CUBA TO HAVE LEGAL OTHER COUNTR.
THE CUBANS SAID WE'RE NOT HAPPY
WITH THIS, THIS IS A POLICY THAT
ENCOURAGES PEOPLE TO COME TO THE
UNITED STATES ILLEGALLY AND ALSO
SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES WAS
ENCOURAGING THEIR DOCTORS AND
MEDICAL WORKERS TO EFFECTIVELY
DEFECT FROM THIRD COUNTRIES AND
THAT THIS WAS UNETHICAL AND
DEPRIVING PEOPLE IN POOR
COUNTRIES OF TREATMENT BY CUBAN
DOCTORS.
SO CLEARLY THEY HAVE ISSUES THAT
STILL NEED TO BE IRONED OUT.
>> Ifill: CUBA WOULD ALSO LIKE
TO IRON OUT THIS MATTER OF
WHETHER IT'S ON THE U.S.-STATE
SPONSORED LIST OF TERRORISM.
IS THAT SOMETHING WHICH IS AT
LEAST ON THE TABLE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE DIDN'T KNOW
AT THE TIME BUT PRESIDENT OBAMA
HAD INSTRUCTED HIS STATE
DEPARTMENT ON DECEMBER 17 TO
UNDERTAKE A SIX-MONTH REVIEW.
SO BY JUNE, WE WILL KNOW WHETHER
THE UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE
AND EVIDENCE STILL CONSIDERS
CUBA TO BE A STATE SPONSOR OF
TERRORISM.
NOW, HERE'S THE THING -- THE
AMERICAN OFFICIALS HAVE SAID
THAT REGARDLESS OF THE OUTCOME
OF THAT REVIEW, WHETHER CUBA IS
OR IS NOT STATE-SPONSORED
TERRORISM THEY PLAN TO GO AHEAD
WITH REESTABLISHING DIPLOMATIC
RELATIONS.
THE CUBANS SAY WE EXPECT TO BE
TAKEN OFF THE LIST.
WE DON'T WANT TO BE ON THE LIST
WITH IRAN AND SYRIA AND SUDAN
AND WON'T GO FORWARD WITH
NORMALIZATION UNLESS WE GET
TAKEN OFF THE LIST.
THAT WILL BE A POINT OF
CONTENTION IF THE U.S. REVIEW
DOESN'T TURN OUT THE WAY THE
CUBAUPS WANT IT.
>> Ifill: DOESN'T THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAVE BROADER
BILATERAL GOALS IN MIND AND IS
IT THREATENED BY THE RE
ASSISTANCE WE'RE SEEING ON
CAPITOL HILL FROM PEOPLE LIKE
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO AND ILEANA
ROS-LEHTINEN AND OTHERS?
>> THEY KNEW THEY WOULD GET
RESISTANCE FROM CUBAN AMERICANS
IN CONGRESS.
I THINK THEY KNOW THAT WILL BE A
SLOW UPHILL BATTLE BUT I THINK
WE SAW FROM THE PRESIDENT'S
STATE OF THE UNION LAST NIGHT
THAT HE IS MAKING THIS A
PRIORITY AND WILLING TO ACT
AGGRESSIVELY UNILATERALLY, USING
EXECUTIVE POWER TO THE EXTENT
THAT HE CAN.
HE SO FAR SAID HE THINKS IT'S UP
TO CONGRESS TO LIFT THE EMBARGO,
THAT HE CAN'T DO IT ALONE, ETCH
THOUGH THERE ARE LEGAL ANALYSTS
WHO BELIEVE HE HAS MORE POWER
THAN HE'S ACTUALLY AT THE TIME
LTEING ON.
I THINK CONGRESS WILL BE AN
IMPEDIMENT FOR THE PRESIDENT BUT
WE ALSO SEE IN POLLING THAT
YOUNGER CUBAN AMERICANS IN THE
UNITED STATES UNDER AGE 40 ARE
IN FAVOR OF REESTABLISHING
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES
AND CUBA AS OPPOSED TO OLDER
CUBAN-AMERICANS.
SO WE ARE SEEING A GENERATIONAL
SHIFT HERE, TOO.
>> Ifill: WE'RE ASSUMING THIS
IS BEGINNING OF THE
CONVERSATION, NOT THE END.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK WE'RE TAKING, I WOULD
SAY A MATTER OF MONTHS, YOU
KNOW, BEFORE WE SEE FLAGS FLYING
IN EACH CAPITAL OVER EMBASSIES
AND AMBASSADORS NAMED AND AT
LEAST IN THE CASE OF THE UNITED
STATES TRYING TO NAME AN
AMBASSADOR BEFORE IT BEING
BLOCKED BY CONGRESS.
BUT I THINK THE LONGER PROCESS
OF TRADE NOT TO MENTION TRUST
WILL BE A LONGER PROCESS.
I'VE ASKED U.S. OFFICIALS ABOUT
THIS AND WE DON'T KNOW HOW LONG
THAT'S GOING TO TAKE.
I THINK ON THE U.S. SIDE THEY'RE
HOPEFUL SOONER RATHER THAN LATER
BUT THOSE TALKS WILL BE
HAPPENING TOMORROW AND ALONG
WITH OTHER BILATERAL
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT COOPERATION
ON GLOBAL HEALTH, AGAINST EBOLA,
ENVIRONMENT, COAST GUARD.
WE'LL SEE HOW FAR THEY GET.
>> Ifill: THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US FROM HAVANA.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: TO THE SUPREME
COURT NOW, WHERE ARGUMENTS WERE
HEARD TODAY ON A HOUSING
DISCRIMINATION CASE THAT COULD
HAVE SWEEPING EFFECTS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
TO WALK US THROUGH WHAT HAPPENED
IS NEWSHOUR CONTRIBUTOR MARCIA
COYLE OF "THE NATIONAL LAW
JOURNAL."
WELCOME BACK.
WE SAW YOU JUST LAST NIGHT.
>> YES, YOU DID.
HAPPY TO BE BACK.
>> Woodruff: A LOT GOING ON AT
THE COURT.
MARCIA, THIS IS A CASE CLOSELY
WATCHED IN MANY PLACES INCLUDING
THE CIVIL RIGHTS COMMUNITY.
TELL US WHAT'S GOING ON.
>> THE TEXAS HOUSING AGENCY
ADMINISTERS A SYSTEM OF FEDERAL
TAX CREDITS TO DEVELOPERS WHO
WILL BUILD HOUSING FOR
LOW-INCOME FAMILIES.
THE INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES
PROJECT IN TEXAS IS APP
ORGANIZATION THAT ADVOCATES
INTEGRATION OF PREDOMINANTLY
WHITE SUBURBS OF DALLAS, TEXAS.
THE PROJECT SUED THE TEXAS
HOUSING AGENCY CLAIMING IT HAD
VIOLATED THE FEDERAL FAIR
HOUSING ACT BECAUSE MOST OF THE
DEVELOPMENT THAT WAS RECEIVING
FEDERAL TAX CREDITS WAS BEING
DONE IN POOR MINORITY
COMMUNITIES.
THE LOWER FEDERAL COURTS SAID
THAT THE PROJECT COULD BRING THE
KIND OF CLAIM THAT IT HAS
BROUGHT UNDER THE FEDERAL LAW,
SOMETHING WE CALL DISPARATE
IMPACT CLAIM.
THAT CLAIM SAYS TEXAS HOUSING
AGENCY SEEMS TO HAVE A POLICY
FOR THESE TAX CREDITS NEUTRAL ON
ITS FACE, BUT IT HAS A
DISCRIMINATORY EFFECT WHEN IT'S
ACTUALLY APPLIED.
THE QUESTION BEFORE THE SUPREME
COURT WHICH WAS BROUGHT BY THE
STATE OF TEXAS IS WHETHER YOU
CAN BRING THIS TYPE OF CLAIM,
WHICH HAS BEEN AVAILABLE FOR
40-SOME YEARS, UNDER THE FAIR
HOUSING ACT.
>> Woodruff: SO AT THE CORE --
SOME OF WHAT'S AT THE CORE OF
THIS IS WHETHER IT
DISCRIMINATES, EVEN THOUGH THERE
WASN'T INTENTION, THE EFFECT IS
TO DISCRIMINATE.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: THESE ARE THE
KINDS OF CASES THEY HAVEN'T COME
TO THE COURT IN RECENT YEARS.
>> THIS PARTICULAR QUESTION HAS
NOT REACHED THE COURT, ALTHOUGH
TEN FEDERAL COURTS OF APPEALS
HAVE ADDRESSED IT AND FOUND THAT
THIS TYPE OF CLAIM IS AVAILABLE
UNDER THE HOUSING ACT.
>> Woodruff: TELL US ABOUT THE
ARGUMENTS MADE AND HOW THE
JUSTICES REACTING.
>> ANYTIME THIS PARTICULAR COURT
DEALS WITH A RAILS-RELATED
QUESTION, IT SEEMS TO ALMOST
ALWAYS DIVIDE THEM
IDEOLOGICALLY, AND THAT PLAYED
OUT A BIT DURING THE ARGUMENTS
TODAY.
YOU HAD JUSTICES GINSBURG,
BREYER, SOTOMAYOR AND KAGAN
HAVING THE TOUGHEST QUESTIONS TO
THE HOUSING AGENCY LAWYER.
JUSTICE BREYER SAID WHY SHOULD
WE SAY IT'S NOT AVAILABLE UNDER
THIS PARTICULAR LAW, AND THE
TEXAS LAWYER MADE TWO ARGUMENTS.
HE SAID THIS T PLAIN LANGUAGE OF
THE FEDERAL LAW DOESN'T SAY IT'S
AVAILABLE.
IT ONLY ADDRESSES INTENTIONAL
DISCRIMINATION, NOT IMPACT
DISCRIMINATION.
ALSO, HE SAID, IF GOVERNMENTS
AND ZONING OFFICERS, THE BANKS,
LENDERS ARE FACED WITH DISPARATE
IMPACT LIABILITY, THEY'RE GOING
TO BE FORCED TO MAKE
RACE-CONSCIOUS DECISIONS.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, WE HEARD
ARGUMENTS, THE SOLICITOR GENERAL
OF THE UNITED STATES AND THE
LAWYER FOR THE PROJECT THAT'S
SUED DEFENDED THE USE OF THESE
CLAIMS.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS AND
JUSTICE AL ALITO AND SCALIA HAD
PROBLEMS WITH THE CLAIM.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS SAID HOW
DO YOU TELL WHETHER THERE'S A
GOOD OR A BAD IMPACT?
MAYBE THE COMMUNITY WANTS
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS BLIGHTED AND
THIS IS A COMMUNITY THAT'S
PREDOMINANTLY MINORITY, OR
THERE'S A COMMUNITY THAT WANTS
TO BE INTEGRATED.
SO HOW DO YOU TELL?
THE SOLICITOR GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES SAID THIS IS THE
DISPARATE IMPACT PROCESS, IT'S
PLAYED OUT IN COURT.
THE AGENCY HAS TO COME FORWARD
TO JUSTIFY THE POLICY THAT'S
BEING QUESTIONED, AND IF IT DOES
HAVE A DISCRIMINATORY EFFECT, IT
HAS TO COME UP WITH ANOTHER
RACE-KNENEUTRAL ALTERNATIVE.
>> Woodruff: SOUNDS LIVELY.
VERY LIVELY, AND CIVIL RIGHTS
GROUPS HAVE BEEN VERY CONCERNED
BECAUSE SEVERAL JUSTICES HAVE
CRITICIZED THE AVAILABILITY OF
DISPARATE IMPACT CLAIMS.
>> Woodruff: WE SAID EARLIER
WHATEVER IS DECIDED COULD HAVE
REPERCUSSIONS BEYOND HOUSING.
>> THAT'S RIGHT BECAUSE THIS
CLAIM ADDRESSES
SECOND-GENERATION
DISCRIMINATION.
JUST ABOUT EVERYBODY KNOWS
INTENTIONAL DISCRIMINATION ON
THE BASIS OF RACE OR ANOTHER
PROTECTED CHARACTERISTIC IS
ILLEGAL, BUT DISCRIMINATION
TODAY IS MUCH MORE SUBTLE AND
CIVIL RIGHTS GROUPS SAY THIS IS
AN EXTREMELY EFFECTIVE TOOL FOR
ROOTING OUT THAT TYPE OF
DISCRIMINATION.
>> Woodruff: SEPARATELY AND
QUICKLY, A LITTLE EXCITEMENT AT
THE COURT BEFORE ALL THE
ARGUMENTS GOT UNDERWAY.
>> WERE UNUSUAL.
TODAY WAS THE FIFTH ANNIVERSARY
OF CITIZENS UNITED CAMPAIGN
FINANCE DECISION.
AFTER THE JUSTICES TOOK THEIR
SEAT, SOMEONE POPPED UP IN THE
BACK OF THE PUBLIC AUDIENCE AND
STARTED SHOUTING SOMETHING TO
THE EFFECT "I ARISE BECAUSE OF
DEMOCRACY."
THE GUARDS IMMEDIATELY MOVED TO
TAKE THAT PERSON OUT OF THE
COURTROOM.
THEN ONE AFTER ANOTHER, ALMOST
SEVEN TOTAL, I BELIEVE, POPPED
UP AT DIFFERENT POINTS TO MAKE
COMMENTS.
LIKE ONE PERSON, ONE VOTE.
MONEY IS NOT SPEECH.
WE ARE THE 99%.
THEY WERE LATER CHARGED UNDER A
LAW THAT PROHIBITS HA RANGING,
LOUDLOUD ORATIONS IN THE SUPREME
COURT BUILDING AND CHARGED WITH
CONSPIRACY.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
ISSUED A STATEMENT FROM THE
PRESIDENT SAYING CITIZENS UNITED
DOING REAL HARM IN THE FIVE
YEARS.
>> IF I RECALL IT CORRECTLY HE
MENTIONED IT DURING A STATE OF
THE UNION ADDRESS NEWT NOT TOO
LONG AGO.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE RIGHT.
MARCIA COYLE, THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE, JUDY.
>> Ifill: THREE DOZEN STATES
HAVE MOVED TO LEGALIZE SAME SEX
MARRIAGE, BUT IN SOME QUARTERS,
A BACKLASH IS UNDERWAY.
ONE EXAMPLE, COLORADO, WHERE ONE
BAKERY OWNER SAYS THE STATE
SHOULD NOT FORCE HIM TO CATER
GAY WEDDINGS.
HARI SREENIVASAN TAKES A LOOK AT
THE ONGOING LEGAL BATTLE BETWEEN
RELIGIOUS EXPRESSION AND EQUAL
RIGHTS.
>> Sreenivasan: COLORADO BAKER
JACK PHILLIPS ESTIMATES HE'S
MADE 5,000 WEDDING CAKES SINCE
HE OPENED HIS SHOP MASTERPIECE
CAKESHOP 20 YEARS AGO.
>> I JUST LIKE EVERYTHING ABOUT
THE BAKING BUSINESS.
WITH A WEDDING I GET TO KNOW THE
BRIDE, THE GROOM, IF I CAN.
YOU KNOW, AS MUCH PERSONALITY
AND THINGS AS I CAN.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE HIS
PORTFOLIO OF WEDDING CAKES IS
VAST THERE'S ONE CAKE THE
BAKERRER FUSES TO BAKE.
PHILLIPS WILL NOT MAKE A CAKE
FOR A SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
>> IT'S A CAKE I DON'T DO
BECAUSE OF MY CHRISTIAN FAITH.
>> Sreenivasan: DEEPLY
RELIGIOUS, HE SAYS HE'LL BAKE
FOR SAME SEX COUPLES NOT JUST
THE WEDDING CAKE.
>> PART OF ME GOES TO THE
RECEPTION AND IN THIS CASE THAT
PART OF ME DOESN'T WANT TO BE
REPRESENTED IN A CEREMONY THAT I
BELIEVE IS UNBIBBICLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT DOESN'T
WORK FOR THE COLORADO CIVIL
RIGHTS DIVISION.
THEY SAY PHILLIPS MUST OFFER THE
SAME SERVICES TO ALL CUSTOMERS
REGARDLESS OF RACE, GENDER OR
SEXUAL ORIENTATION, ACCORDING TO
STATUTE.
AN ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGE ORDERED
PHILLIPS TO CEASE AND DESIST HIS
WEDDING CAKE POLICY.
AS THE NUMBER OF STATES ALLOWING
SAME-SEX MARRIAGES INCREASES,
SO, TOO, HAVE THE NUMBER OF
BUSINESS OWNERS REFUSING TO
PROVIDE WEDDING SERVICES.
CASES LIKE A FLORIST IN
WASHINGTON STATE, A BED AND
BREAKFAST IN HAWAII, A PRINTER
IN KENTUCKY, AND A PHOTOGRAPHER
IN NEW MEXICO.
>> WE'RE ON A COLLISION COURSE
WITH HOMOSEXUAL RIGHTS VERSUS
RIGHTS OF CONSCIENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: NICOLE MARTIN
IS REPRESENTING JACK PHILLIPS IN
A CASE BEFORE THE COLORADO COURT
OF APPEALS.
IT BEGAN WHEN PHILLIPS REFUSED
TO MAKE A WEDDING CAKE IN 2013.
>> JACK DECLINED BECAUSE OF HIS
RELIGIOUS BELIEFS ABOUT
MARRIAGE, NOT BECAUSE OF WHO THE
COMPLAINTANTS ARE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE
COMPLAINTENS ARE COLORADO COUPLE
CHARLIE CRAIG AND DAVID MULLINS.
>> YOUR MOM AND DAD GAVE ME A
GIANT HUG.
>> Sreenivasan: CRAIG AND
MULLINS MADE IT OFFICIAL BY
GETTING MARRIED IN 2012.
AT THE SAME TIME, SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE WAS ILLEGAL IN COLORADO
SO THE COUPLE TRAVELED TO
MASSACHUSETTS WHERE THEY MARRIED
SURROUNDED BY FRIENDS AND FAMILY
WHO MADE THE TRIP WITH THEM.
>> THEY CELEBRATED US AND THE
PEOPLE WHO HAD COME TOGETHER FOR
US.
AND I FEEL LIKE THOSE ARE THE
FUNDAMENTAL THINGS THAT EVERYONE
ANTSW IN THEIR WEDDING.
>> Sreenivasan: THE COUPLE
THEN PLANNED THEIR RECEPTION IN
COLORADO AND WENT TO MASTERPIECE
CAKESHOP TO LOOK AT CAKES.
>> WE SAT DOWN WITH THE OPENER
JACK PHILLIPS, OPENED THE BOOK
OF IDEAS AND ALMOST INSTANTLY HE
ASKED US IF THE CAKE WAS FOR US.
WE SAID IT WAS.
AND HE TOLD US THAT HE WOULD NOT
MAKE A CAKE -- A WEDDING CAKE
FOR A GAY COUPLE.
WHAT FOLLOWED WAS AN INCREDIBLY
AWKWARD PREGNANT PAUSE BEFORE WE
GOT UP AND LEFT.
>> Sreenivasan: JACK PHILLIPS
DESCRIBES THE MEETING IN MUCH IS
THE SAME WAY.
>> I SAID, I'M SORRY, GUYS, I
DON'T DO CAKES FOR A SAME-SEX
WEDDING.
AT WHICH TIME THEY STORMED OUT.
>> WE WERE MORTIFIED AND
EMBARRASSED.
THE FACT CHARLIE'S MOTHER WAS
THERE, YOU DON'T WANT YOUR
MOTHER TO SEE THAT.
>> IT HURT ME AND MADE ME FEEL I
WAS NOT WORTHY.
>> BEING TOLD AND TREATED
UNEQUALLY MAKES YOU FEEL LIKE A
SECOND-CLASS CITIZEN.
IT MAKES YOU FEEL LIKE YOU
MATTER LESS THAN THE PERSON
STANDING NEXT TO YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: CRAIG AND
MULLINS FILED A COMPLAINT WITH
THE COLORADO CIVIL RIGHTS
DECISION.
AMANDA REPRESENTS CRAIG AND
MULLINS.
SAYS JACK PHILLIPS' FAITH
DOESN'T ALLOW HIM TO REFUSE
SERVICES.
>> IT'S ALWAYS BEEN IN AMERICA
YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO BELIEVE WHAT
YOU WANT AND PRACTICE YOUR
FAITH.
THAT DOESN'T GO SO FAR THAT
MEANS THAT YOU CAN PRACTICE YOUR
FAITH THAT EXCLUDE OTHER PEOPLE
FROM PUBLIC LIFE AND CAUSE HARM
TO OTHER PEOPLE.
>> I DON'T SEE NOT BAKING A CAKE
IS CAUSING ANYBODY HARM.
THERE'S A BAKERY ACROSS THE
STREET THAT WOULD MAKE IT FOR
THEM.
>> IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT THE CAKE.
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE IS
ACCESS TO PUBLIC LIFE, AND THE
SAME LAW THAT SAYS A BAKERY AS A
RETAIL BUSINESS CAN'T
DISCRIMINATE ALSO APPLIES TO ALL
SORTS OF OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC, EVERYTHING
FROM BANKS TO HOSPITALS TO PARKS
TO HOTELS AND MOTELS.
>> Sreenivasan: NICOLE MARTIN
AGREES THE DEBATE IS ABOUT
SOMETHING BIGGER.
SHE SAYS IT'S A FIRST AMENDMENT
ISSUE.
>> THIS CASE IS ABOUT THE
GOVERNMENT FORCING JACK TO
EXPRESS A MESSAGE THAT IS DEEP
RIAT ODDS WITH HIS CONVICTIONS.
>> I FEEL LIKE I'M DISCRIMINATED
AGAINST.
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION FIRST
AMENDMENT CLEARLY SAYS CONGRESS
SHALL PASS NO LAW FOR AN
ESTABLISHMENT OF RELIGION OR FOR
EXERCISE OF IT.
>> SELLING AN ORDER FOR A
CUSTOMER IS JUST THAT.
THERE ARE ALL SORTS OF WAYS HE
COULD COMMUNICATE IF HE COUNTRY
AGREE WITH THE MESSAGES INVOLVED
IN CREATING A PARTICULAR ORDER.
>> WOULD YOU COME UP WITH SIDE
VEGGIE?
>> Sreenivasan: CRAIG AND
MULLINS SAYS THIS LED THEM TO
SPEAK OUT IN A WAY THEY WOULDN'T
HAVE BEFORE.
>> WE STRONGLY SUPPORT THE RIGHT
FOR PEOPLE TO BELIEVE WHATEVER
THEY BELIEVE IN THEIR HEARTS,
BUT A BAKERY IS NOT A CHURCH.
IT IS A PLACE OF BUSINESS OPEN
TO THE PUBLIC, AND IF YOU ARE IN
A BUNESSSI OPEN TO THE PUBLIC,
THAT IS GOVERNED BY CIVIL LAWS
AND NOT RELIGIOUS LAWS.
>> Sreenivasan: JACK PHILLIPS
STOPPED TAKING WEDDING CAKE
ORDERS TILL THE COLORADO COURT
OF APPEALS WEIGHS IN ON HIS
CASE.
MEAN WHIECIALTION SIMILAR CASES
HAVE PROMPTED CASES IN OTHER
STATES.
I'M.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR THE PBS
"NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: NOW, TAKING STOCK
OF THE CONTINUING BATTLE AGAINST
THE DEADLY EBOLA VIRUS IN WEST
AFRICA, FROM A LEADING WORKER
AND ORGANIZER WHO WAS THERE
RLY EAON, AND IS ABOUT TO RETURN
WITH AN EVOLVING MISSION.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: EBOLA HAS KILLLED MORE
THAN 8,500 PEOPLE SINCE IT BEGAN
NEARLY ONE-YEAR-AGO.
A MAJOR HEALTH EMERGENCY THAST'
BROUGHT OUT A MAJOR AND OFTEN
DANGEROUS RESPONSE EFFORT FROM
HEALTH WORKERS.
IN HIS STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS LAST NIGHT, PRESIDENT
OBAMA HAILED AMERICANS WHO'VE
SERVED ON THE FRONT LINES.
>> IN WEST AFRICA, OUR TROOPS,
OUR SCIENTISTS, OUR DOCTORS, OUR
NURSES AND HEALTHCARE WORKERS
ARE ROLLING BACK EBOLA.
>> Brown: SITTING WITH THE FIRST
LADY DURING THE SPEECH, DR.
PRANAV SHETTY SERVED AS THE
EMBODIMENT OF THAT EFFORT.
>> Brown: AS GLOBAL EMERGENCY
HEALTH COORDINATOR FOR THE NON-
PROFIT INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL
CORPS, SHETTY IS MORE TYPICALLY
FOUND IN HEALTH HOT-SPOTS AROUND
THE WORLD.
IN AUGUST HE WENT TO LIBERIA TO
HELP ESTABLISH AND OVERSEE TWO
EBOLA TREATMENT UNS ANITD A
TRAINING CENTER FOR HEALTH
WORKERS.
SHORTLY BEFORE GOING TO THE
CAPITOL LAST NIGHT, AND JUST
DAYS BEFORE LEAVING FOR GUINEA
TO CONTINUE THE WORK AGAINST
EBOLA.
HE CAME TO OUR STUDIO TO TALK.
IS IT FAIR TO SAY THE WORST CASE
SCENARIO OF SPINNING OUT OF
CONTROL HAS BEEN AVOIDED AT THIS
POINT?
>> WE CAN SAY TREMENDOUS STRIDES
HAVE BEEN MADE IN ADDRESSING THE
RESPONSE.
THE WORST-CASE SCENARIO WAS
PREDICATED ON THE FACT THAT
NOTHING WAS DONE AND THAT WE
WERE AT THE STATE WE WERE
ESPECIALLY IN LIBERIA, YOU KNOW,
SEVERAL, SEVERAL MONTHS AGO.
SO NOW I THINK WHAT WE'VE SEEN
IS BECAUSE OF THE STRENGTH AND
THE SPEED OF THE RESPONSE, YOU
KNOW, AND THE BIG PUSH THAT
OCCURRED, I THINK THAT WE
HOPEFULLY HAVE TURNED A CORNER
AND PASSED THE WORST AND NOW
REALLY KNEED TO FOCUS ON
FINISHING THE JOB THERE.
>> Brown: THERE WERE STORIES
IN "THE WASHINGTON POST" ABOUT
THE U.S. TREATMENT CENTERS BUILT
BY THE U.S. THAT ARE MOSTLY
EMPTY.
IS IT TOO LATE AND THEY DID
THEIR JOB AND THINGS HAVE TURNED
THE CORNER?
>> I THINK THEY DID THEIR JOB.
TO ADDRESS THIS OUTBREAK, WE
NEED TO HIT IT HARD AND FAST AND
THAT'S WHAT WE DID.
INTERNATIONAL
MEDICAL CORPORATION WAS ONE OF
THE ACTSIES AND WE RESPONDED AS
QUICKLY AND AGGRESSIVELY AS WE
CAN AND STEMMED THE TIDE OF THE
OUTBREAK.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT IN
LIBERIA ITSELF, THE FOFT, THE
UPONLATION, TO THE EXTENT THINGS
ARE BETTER, DO WE KNOW WHY?
DID THEY RESPOND WELL AND LEARN
WHAT WAS HAPPENING?
>> DEFINITELY.
I THINK THE COMMUNITY AND LOCAL
INVOLVEMENT IS KEY TO ADDRESSING
THIS TYPE OF OUTBREAK BECAUSE
EVERY ASPECT OF THE RESPONSE
THAT NEEDS TO OCCUR IS ROOTED IN
THE COMMUNITY BUY-IN AND
LEADERSHIP FROM SAFE AND EFFECT
EFFECTIVE BURIAL TO COMMUNITY
TRACING TO CONTACT TRACE THROUGH
SURVEILLANCE THROUGH ISOLATION,
IT'S ALL ROOTED IN THE
COMMUNITY, SO THE SOCIAL
MOBILIZATION CAMPAIGNS THAT
REALLY WENT FORWARD WITH THE
BUILDING OF THE TREATMENT
CENTERS AND ALL THE OTHER MORE
VISIBLE PARTS TO HAVE THE
RESPONSE WAS REALLY A KEY
FACTOR.
>> Brown: WHAT ARE THE BIGGEST
NEEDS NOW?
>> THE BIGGEST NEEDS NOW HAVE TO
DO WITH RECONSTRUCTING THE
HEALTH SYSTEM AND GETTING TO
ZERO AT THE SAME TIME.
SO INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL
CORPORATION, WE HAVE THREE
PILLARS IN OUR RESPONSE, ONE IS
AROUND ISOLATION AND CASE
MANAGEMENT TO GET TO ZERO
BECAUSE UNTIL WE GET TO ZERO
CASES WE CAN'T SAY WE'VE WON THE
WAR AGAINST EBOLA IN WEST
AFRICA.
>> Brown: IS IT POSSIBLE TO
GET TO ZERO?
>> WE THINK IT'S POSSIBLE.
THE RESPONSE HAS SHOWN WE CAN
MAKE TREMENDOUS STRIDES AND IT'S
THE LAST PART ON THE LAST LEG
THAT WE NEED TO MAKE THE STRONG
PUSH TO DO SO.
SO CONTINUED FOCUS AND CONTINUED
ATTENTION PREDICATED ON THE
TENETS OF RESPONSE WE'VE SEEN SO
FAR IS CRUCIAL TO GETTING TO
ZERO.
>> Brown: YOU WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE HEALTH
INFRASTRUCTURES, THE OTHER LEG
OF THIS DEVASTATED THROUGH ALL
OF THIS.
>> DEFINITELY.
THE HEALTH SYSTEM IN LIBERIA
TEST
SO WE'RE STARTING WITH A VERY
FRAGILE HEALTH SYSTEM TO BEGIN
WITH.
ADDING ON THE COMPONENTS
SPECIFICALLY TARGETED TOWARD
EBOLA AS YOU MENTIONED ISOLATION
AND ADDING ON THE TRAINING
COMPONENT FOR EBOLA AS WELL AS
ANY OTHER INFECTIOUS OUTBREAK AN
HEALTH STRENGTHENING AND
ACTIVATION IS IMPORTANT.
THE INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CORPS
IS COMMITTED TO WORKING IN THESE
THREE PILLARS.
>> Brown: YOU'RE GOING BACK TO
GUINEA.
>> CORRECT.
>> Brown: BECAUSE YOU'RE
SEEING MORE NEEDS THERE?
>> IN GUINEA, IN PARTICULAR,
THERE HASN'T BEEN A HUGE SPIKE
OF CASES AS WE'VE SEEN IN
LIBRARYIA BUT WE'VE ALSO NOT
SEEN A TREMENDOUS DECLINE IN THE
SAME TIME PERIOD.
IN GUINEA, THERE IS SOME ISSUES
WITH RESISTANCE ESPECIALLY IN
THE RURAL AREAS SO THIS REQUIRE.
WE'LL HAVE TO BE MORE FLEXIBLE
AND ADDRESS THE NEEDS
GEOGRAPHICALLY SPREAD OUT ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
SO WE'RE GOING TO ASSESS THE
NEEDS AND RESPOND AS BEST WE
CAN.
>> Brown: THERE IS A LOT GOING
ON IN THE WORLD, RIGHT?
ARE YOU WORRIED PEOPLE ARE NO
LONGER PAYING AS MUCH ATTENTION
TO THIS?
>> I THINK THE FOLKS WE NEED IS
HELPING PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT
THIS FIGHT IS NOT OVER.
YOU KNOW, WE REALLY KNEED TO
HAVE PUT THE RESOURCES AND THE
FINANCIAL HUMAN RESOURCES BEHIND
US TO REALLY GET TO THE POINT
THAT WE HAVE ZERO CASES BECAUSE
THIS OUTBREAK STARTED BY ONE
CASE AND IT CAN START AGAIN
UNLESS WE PUT ALL OUR FOCUS AND
ATTENTION ON STAMPING IT OUT
NOW, NOW THAT WE'VE MADE SOME
STRIDES IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
TO FINISH THE JOB.
>> Brown: INTEREST PRANAV
SHETTY OF THE INTERNATIONALINTEL
MEDICAL CORPS, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE NEW ENGLAND
PATRIOTS ARE ON THEIR WAY TO
THEIR EIGHTH SUPER BOWL, A TRIP
TO THE BIG GAME THAT FOLLOWED A
BLOWOUT VICTORY OVER THE
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS THIS WEEKEND.
BUT NOW THE TEAM IS BEING
ACCUSED OF CHEATING, AMID
QUESITONS THEY VIOLATED LEAGUE
POLICY BY USING UNDER-INFLATED
FOOTBALLS, WHICH CAN BE EASIER
TO THROW AND CATCH.
REPORTS OUT TODAY SAY AN N.F.L.
INVESTIGATION FOUND THE BALLS
WERE INDEED DEFLATED, RAISING
QUESTIONS OF FAIRNESS FOR ONE OF
THE LEAGUE'S MOST SUCCESSFUL
TEAMS.
HARI, IN OUR NEW YORK STUDIO
PICKS UP THE STORY FOR THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: HERE'S WHAT
SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN, EACH TEAM
PROVIDES GAME OFFICIALS WITH A
DOZEN FOOTBALLS BEFORE THE GAME
THAT IT WILL USE DURING THE
GAME.
THE REFEREES THEN INSPECT THOSE
BALLS A LITTLE MORE THAN TWO
HOURS BEFORE KICKOFF.
FOOTBALLS ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
INFLATED TO BETWEEN 12-AND-A-
HALF AND 13-AND-A-HALF POUNDS
PER INCH OF PRESSURE.
BUT ON SUNDAY, WHEN THE COLTS
GOT THEIR HANDS ON A BALL WHEN
THEY INTERCEPTED A PASS FROM THE
PATRIOTS, THEY GREW SUSPICIOUS.
OFFICIALS THEN SWAPPED OUT A
BALL DURING THE THIRD QUARTER.
TODAY, ESPN AND "THE BOSTON
GLOBE" REPORTED THE LEAGUE'S
INITIAL FINDINGS OF A POTENTIAL
VIOLATION.
THE N.F.L. TOLD THE NEWSHOUR
IT'S CONTINUING TO INVESTIGATE
THE MATTER.
BEN VOLIN IS THE NATIONAL N.F.L.
REPORTER FOR "THE BOSTON GLOBE"
WHO BROKE THE LATEST TODAY, AND
HE JOINS ME NOW.
SO WHAT HAS THE LEAGUE FOUND SO
FAR, BEN?
>> ALL THE LEAGUE HAS FOUND IS
THAT THE PATRIOTS DID IN FACT
USE UNDERINFLATED FOOTBALLS ON
SUNDAY NIGHT AGAINST THE COLTS.
THE LEAGUE ACTUALLY SENT A
LETTER TO THE PATRIOTS MONDAY
INFORMING THEM THEIR INITIAL
INVESTIGATION DID TURN UP THIS
FACT THAT THE BALLS WERE NOT
PROPERLY INFLATED AND, SO, NOW
YOU HAVE LEAGUE OFFICIALS HERE
IN NEW ENGLAND, IN FOXBORO
INTERVIEWING TEAM PERSONNEL, THE
OFFICIALS FROM TO THE NIGHT,
BALL BOYS, ANYONE WHO COULD HAVE
BEEN AFFILIATED WITH THE CHAIN
OF CUSTODY WITH THE FOOTBALLS.
WE'RE TRYING TO DETERMINE HOW
THE BALLS GOT UNDERINFLATED.
THE N.F.L. HAS NOT ACCUSED THE
PATRIOTS OF ANYTHING YET.
COULD HAVE BEEN IMPROPER
PROTOCOL FROM OFFICIALS, PERHAPS
THE COLD WEATHER PLAYED INTO IT
BUT THE N.F.L. CONFIRMED THE
PATRIOTS' FOOTBALLS WERE
UNDERINFLATED.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN A
12-YEAR-OLD IS ASKS QUESTIONS,
WHY DIDN'T THE REST FEEL THE
DIFFERENCE?
THE REFS TOUCH THE BALL BETWEEN
EVERY PLAY.
>> THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
I HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO WRAP MY
HEAD AROUND THAT ONE.
I HAVE BEEN ABLE TO ACTUALLY
TODAY WE'VE TAKEN A FEW
FOOTBALLS AND GIVEN THEM VARIOUS
PRESSURE.
YOU CAN'T ALWAYS TELL
IMMEDIATELY IF ONE BALL IS
SLIGHTLY LESS INFLATED THAN
ANOTHER AND IN THE HEAT OF THE
GAME WITH SO MUCH GOING ON
PERHAPS, YOU KNOW, THE BALL FELT
LIGHT ENOUGH FOR THE OFFICIAL
AND THEY'RE NOT SITTING THERE
WITH A PRESSURE GAUGE AND TAKING
THE PRESSURE OF THE FOOTBALL ALL
THE TIME, SO I'M WITH YOU, I
DON'T QUITE UNDERSTAND HOW THE
OFFICIALS WEREN'T ABLE TO COME
UP WITH THIS, BUT IT'S TRUE, THE
COLTS FIRST -- THE BALL BOY ON
THE SIDELINE INFORMED THE COACH
WHO TOLD THE GENERAL MANAGER WHO
TOLD A LEAGUE OFFICIAL WHO THEN
RELAYED IT TO THE REFEREES ON
THE FIELD.
AT HALF TIME THEY CHECKED ALL 12
FOOTBALLS FOR THE PATRIOTS.
THEY USED TWO DIFFERENT GAUGES
AND CHECKED EACH BALL TWICE AND
CAME UP THEY WERE UNDERINFLATED.
NOT SURE HOW THE REFS MISSED IT
BUT THEY GOT IT AT HALF TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: A COUPLE
REASONS AROUND THE WATERCOOLER
PEOPLE ARE TALKING ABOUT THIS
IS, ONE, THE COACH OF THE
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS HAD BEEN
FIND IN 2007 FOR CHEATING BEFORE
AND THIS WAS THE GAME THAT GOT
THEM INTO THE SUPER BOWL.
THIS ISN'T GAME TWO AND MAYBE A
MINOR INFRACTION.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE PATRIOTS HAVE LOST THE
BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT BECAUSE OF
THE SPY SCANDAL FROM 2007 AND IS
A BIGGER STAGE.
THIS ISN'T WEEK 11 OF THE
REGULAR SEASON.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF TALK ABOUT
GREEN BAY PACKERS' QUARTERBACK
AARON RODGERS.
HE LIKES TO OVERINFLATE THE
FOOTBALLS BEYOND WHAT THE N.F.L.
LIKES TO DO.
PEOPLE SAY WHY DIDN'T THAT
CREATE A STIR?
HE WASN'T CAUGHT DOING IT AND
NOT IN THE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME
LIKE THE PATRIOTS WERE.
THAT'S WHY IT'S A BIG STORY.
I DON'T THINK IT'S THE WORST
CHEATING IN THE WORLD.
IT'S CLOSER TO A LESSER
INFRACTION, BUT, AT THE SAME
TIME, THEY MOST LIKELY WERE
CAUGHT CHEATING HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS MAKES ME
ASK THE QUESTION, OVERINFLATION,
UNDERINFLATION, TEAMS HAVING
THEIR OWN CONTROL, THIS DOESN'T
HAPPEN IN BASKETBALL, THERE'S NO
DIFFERENT SIZES OF BE ABLES.
WHY CAN'T THERE ONE STANDARD
FOOTBALL THAT SHOWS UP ON THE
FIELD, BOTH TEAMS USE THE SAME
THING THAT'S ALREADY BEEN
DECIDED ON, THAT'S PROPERLY
INFLATED?
WHY DO WE HAVE THIS VARIATION?
>> IT'S INTERESTING THAT THE
N.F.L. HAS SO MANY RULES THAT
ARE SPECIFIC ABOUT WHAT CERTAIN
COLOR SOCKS YOU CAN WEAR AND
COLOR CLEATS YOU CAN WEAR, BUT
THERE IS A LOT OF GREY AREA WITH
THE FOOTBALL AND ALLOW THE TEAMS
TO KIND OF HAVE CONTROL OF THEIR
OWN FOOTBALLS AND PROVIDE THEIR
OWN FOOTBALL TO THE GAME.
I THINK THE OBVIOUS SOLUTION IS
TO HAVE THE N.F.L. DO THIS.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME YOU WILL
SEE PITCHERS KIND OF SCUFF UP A
BASEBALL TO THEIR SPECIFICS OR A
BASKETBALL REFEREE, YOU WILL SEE
HIM KIND OF PRESS THE
BASKETBALL.
SO YOU'RE ALLOWED TO RUB SOME
DIRT ON THE FOOTBALL, TAKE THE
SLICKNESS AWAY, I DON'T THINK
THAT'S WRONG.
BUT CERTAINLY WHEN OFFICIALS
CHECK THE BALLS TWO HOURS BEFORE
GAME TIME AND IF A TEAM
POTENTIALLY TRIES TO TAKE AIR
OUT OF THE FOOTBALL AFTERWARDS
THAT'S A BIG NO NO.
>> Sreenivasan: BEN VOLIN OF
THE "BOSTON GLOBE," THANKS SO
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA BEGAN A TWO-DAY
ROAD TRIP, TO IDAHO AND KANSAS,
TO SELL THE ECONOMIC PROGRAM HE
OUTLINED IN HIS STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS.
REPUBLICANS DISMISSED HIS CALLS
FOR NEW TAXES AND A HIGHER
MINIMUM WAGE.
SHIITE REBELS IN YEMEN TOOK THE
PRO-AMERICAN PRESIDENT CAPTIVE
IN HIS OWN HOME.
HOURS LATER, HE AGREED TO DEAL
GRANTING THEM A GREATER SHARE OF
POWER.
AND U.S. AND CUBAN DELEGATIONS
MET IN HAVANA, IN THEIR HIGHEST
LEVEL TALKS IN DECADES.
THEY WILL WORK TOWARD
NORMALIZING RELATIONS.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, WE WANTED TO CAPTURE
REACTION TO PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS LAST
NIGHT, SO WE SENT A CREW OUT TO
SOME OF D.C.'s FINEST WATERING
HOLES FOR A MORE PLAYFUL POINT
OF VIEW.
WE CALL IT, PUBS AND POLITICS.
E PRESIDENT HAS TWO MORE
YEARS IN OFFICE.
WHAT DO YOU HOPE HE ACCOMPLISHES
IN THAT TIME?
>> RAISE MINIMUM-WAGE FOR SURE.
I THINK IT WAS FUNNY HAT THE
ONLY THING THAT THE ENTIRE
CONGRESS COULD AGREE UPON WAS
THAT WE'RE GOING TO SPACE FOR A
YEAR.
ISN'T THAT GREAT?
>> WOULD YOU RATHER DO ZUMBA
WITH NANCY PELOSI?
>> NANCY PELOSI.
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF WISDOM.
ALL OF THAT AND MORE ON OUR
WEB SITE PBS.org/"NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
IS ON OUR WEB SITE,
pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT HOW
ENGLAND IS COMBATING A RISE IN
EXTREMISM IN AN INTERVIEW WITH
THE BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, FOR ALL
OF US HERE AT THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.